h1. ThoughtWorks Coding Dojo

h2. What is a Coding Dojo?

A Coding Dojo is a meeting where a developers get together to work on a programming challenge, while discussing ideas about Test- and Behaviour-Driven Development and engage in deliberate practice in order to improve their skills.

There are a few rules to a coding dojo, and various formats have been tried all over the world. We try to keep it as simple and collaborative as the size and experience of the audience allow.

We can use any language, tool or platform that is interesting to the audience. The outcome of such an exercise is considered successful not only when the challenge is completed, but when all involved learn something to take home, think about and practice in other challenges or real-life projects.

The most flexible exercise format for varied audieces we found goes a little like this:

* 5 minutes: decide on date for the next session
* 10-15 minutes: overview of the Dojo practice and its goals
* 10-15 minutes: in-depth discussion about the challenge for this session
* 25-30 minutes: code the Kata!
* 5-10 minutes: break to discuss how things are going
* 25-30 minutes: code the Kata!
* 20-25 minutes (or the rest of the day): retrospect on solution and talk about new ideas

Our favourite Kata style is Randori, where:

* Developers (or organisers) choose a mechanism for switching pairs (timer, ping-pong, micro-pairing, a number of tests, or whoever shouts the loudest)
* Two people (driver and copilot) begin the implementation from scratch, using small steps
* According to the switching mechanism, the copilot takes the driver seat and another person from the audience takes over as copilot. They discuss their solution to the audience as they go through it
* Everyone present is expected to follow what is going on, and make helpful suggestions
* Everybody gets a chance to write some code, everybody learns something new!

h2. When is the next one?

This Sunday (8/Nov), 2pm

Blue Tree Towers
<br/>
R. Cel. Lucas de Oliveira, 995 — Porto Alegre

There'll be signs pointing to it, but if you're having trouble just ask at the friendly reception! :)

h2. How can I sign up for it?

Email "Carlos Villela":mailto:cvillela@thoughtworks.com with your name and favourite programming language, and a brief description of what you'd like to learn from this Coding Dojo.

Best entry gets a copy of The ThoughtWorks Anthology, signed by Martin Fowler!
